# Tiny32bitMCUForFPGAs
This is a tiny 32 bit MCU for FPGAs with selectable advanced features and fast GPIOs and an embedded bootloader. The bootloader is capable of loading images from SPI flash and into instruction memory. The instructions are 36 bits wide, that is also the data width of BRAMs in FPGAs. This MCU has 256 registers, R0===0, R1-R7 is used as call parameters / return results, and R255 is used as stack pointer.
    There're a few instructions available, such as comprehensive LOAD/STORE instructions, Load IMM instructions, ALU instructions (add, sub, shift, mul, div), and procedure functions (compare, jump, call, push, pop, etc). The total used instruction groups are 2. Special instructions can be inserted at will. 
    However due to the fact this MCU is intended for FPGA based control only, the common instructions are executed at 3T or more (MUL takes exactly 34T by now, SHIFT takes up to 33T, DIV takes up to 67T), so a MCU running at 100MHz can only achieve up to 30MIPS the performance. And there're no interrupt currently. Such interrupt feature will be added in the future and a PPC-like MMU will possibly be added too.
    Considering the memory model, each IR would takes 8 byte addresses (which only takes one 36 bit word in a BRAM), and each 32 bit data would takes 4 byte addresses. So instruction memory can never be merged with data memory. Thus even with an MMU, this MCU may not be able to run any MMU-based OSes. Flat mode code is prefered for a control based processor. An assembler will be present in the near future and a tiny C compiler may be available in the future but will only support a few features of C language.
